<p>Behavioral interviews attempt to discover how you will be reacting in a situations of conflict if Happen in the Organization, both positive and negative. Behavioral interviews help an employer decide if you’re someone they want to work with.</p>

<h2>Why do behavioral interviews matter?</h2>
Technical skills are replaceable, after all. What really makes you hireable must go beyond those skills to something else.

<strong>Behavioral interviews matter just as much as your coding interviews, so, it’s time to prepare!</strong>


 These are Questions on some Conditions most likely to start with :-
                             “If…”
                             “Imagine…”
                             “You’re asked to…”
                             “Put yourself in the position of…”
                           
What are common behavioural interview questions?
1."Tell me about a goal you reached and how you achieved it."
2."Describe a goal you failed to achieve and what transpired."
3."Share a time you prioritised a task over something else and why."
4."Give an example of how you handle multitasking in one day."
5."Recount a long-term project you completed. How did you keep the project on time and organised?"
6."Share a time you learned a new skill or responsibility quickly."
7."Discuss an example of when you made a tough decision."
8."Tell me about a time you had to be flexible."
9."Elaborate on the proudest moment in your professional career and why it is important to you."
10."Has there ever been a time you felt dissatisfied with your work or role and how did you handle that?"
11."Share how you stay motivated when doing repetitive tasks at work."
12."Explain a project you feel affected your company significantly."
13."Recount a time you had to say no at work."
14."Describe a time you had to work closely with a colleague whose personality differed from yours."
15."Tell me about a time you considered yourself an excellent leader."
16."Share a time you felt you went beyond the standard responsibilities of your job."
17."Recount a time when you disagreed with someone."
18."Describe a time when you had too many to do items on your list. How did you solve the problem?"
19."Describe a situation where your boss was 100% wrong. What did you do?"
20."What if I say no matter how good you perform, I am not going to select you"?
21."What if one Day you woke up and found your suspension mail in your mail box and the thing is you havn't done anything wrong"?
